chore: update the CONTRIBUTING.md file (#469)
gnolang/gno: CONTRIBUTING.md

# Contributing to GNO

Thank you for looking to contribute to the GNO project.
We appreciate every open-source contribution, as it helps us improve and enhance gno for the benefit of the community.

This document outlines some basic pointers on making your future contribution a great experience. It outlines basic PR
etiquette employed by the core gno team. It lays out coding styles, simple how-to guides and tools to get you up and
running and pushing code.

> If you are unsure about something, please don’t hesitate to reach out for help by opening an issue or discussion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are unsure about something, please don’t hesitate to reach out for help by opening an issue here or discuss on Discord.
```

What do you think about disabling discussions and only use issues instead?

Author: You're right, we don't have GitHub discussions enabled yet 👍 

Updated:

[04881f2](https://github.com/gnolang/gno/pull/469/commits/04881f263035f1d561ff73d20002a71cafdeb099)

Likewise, if you have an idea on how to improve this guide, go for it as well.

## Table of Contents

- [Important Resources](#important-resources)
- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
    - [Environment](#environment)
    - [Local Setup](#local-setup)
    - [Testing](#testing)
    - [Repository Structure](#repository-structure)
- [How do I?](#how-do-i)
    - [How do I submit changes?](#how-do-i-submit-changes)
    - [How do I report a bug?](#how-do-i-report-a-bug)
    - [How do I request a feature?](#how-do-i-request-a-feature)
- [Style Guides](#style-guides)
    - [Git Commit Messages](#git-commit-messages)
    - [Go Style Guide](#go-style-guide)
    - [Documentation Style Guide](#documentation-style-guide)
- [Additional Notes](#additional-notes)
    - [Issue and Pull Request Labels](#issue-and-pull-request-labels)
    - [Notable Contributions](#notable-contributions)

## Important Resources

> - **[Discord](https://discord.gg/YFtMjWwUN7)** - we are very active on Discord. Join today and start discussing all
>   things gno with fellow engineers and enthusiasts.
> - **[Active Staging](https://gno.land/)** - use the currently available staging environment to play around with a
>   production network. If you want to interact with a local instance, refer to the [Local Setup](#local-setup) guide.
> - **[Twitter](https://twitter.com/_gnoland)** - follow us on Twitter to get the latest scoop
> - **[Telegram](https://t.me/gnoland)** - join our official Telegram group to start a conversation about gno
> - **[Awesome GNO](https://github.com/gnolang/awesome-gno)** - check out the list of compiled resources for helping you
>   understand the gno ecosystem

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **[Discord](https://discord.gg/YFtMjWwUN7)** - we are very active on Discord. Join today and start discussing all things gno with fellow engineers and enthusiasts.
- **[Awesome GNO](https://github.com/gnolang/awesome-gno)** - check out the list of compiled resources for helping you understand the gno ecosystem
- **[Active Staging](https://gno.land/)** - use the currently available staging environment to play around with a
  production network. If you want to interact with a local instance, refer to the [Local Setup](#local-setup) guide.
- **[Twitter](https://twitter.com/_gnoland)** - follow us on Twitter to get the latest scoop
- **[Telegram](https://t.me/gnoland)** - join our official Telegram group to start a conversation about gno
```

Author: Updates the order:

[2056cb0](https://github.com/gnolang/gno/pull/469/commits/2056cb019a663b9ff61249b08e9d6529b8b7bc15)

## Getting Started

### Environment

The gno repository is primarily based on Golang (Go), and Gnolang (Gno).

The primary tech stack for working on the repository:

- Go (version 1.18+)
- make (for using Makefile configurations)
- Docker (for using the official Docker setup files)

It is recommended to work on a Unix environment, as most of the tooling is built around ready-made tools in Unix (WSL2
for Windows / Linux / macOS).

For Gno, there is no specific tooling that needs to be installed, that’s not already provided with the repo itself.
You can utilize the `gnodev` command to facilitate Gnolang support when writing Smart Contracts in Gno, by installing it
with `make install gnodev`.

Additionally, you can also configure your editor to recognize `.gno` files as `.go` files, to get the benefit of syntax
highlighting.

Currently, we support

> an [official Visual Studio Code](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=harry-hov.gno) extension for

Reviewer: This will come at some point, but it's too early to say it is official.
```suggestion
a [Visual Studio Code](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=harry-hov.gno) extension (eventually official in the future) for
```

Author: Updated the wording:

[332f5bb](https://github.com/gnolang/gno/pull/469/commits/332f5bbd55581fc3f223ae67719ac62d7b3e385d)

augroup END
```

#### Emacs Support

1. Install [go-mode.el](https://github.com/dominikh/go-mode.el).
2. Add to your emacs configuration file:

```lisp
(add-to-list 'auto-mode-alist '("\\.gno\\'" . go-mode))
```

### Local Setup

To get started with Gno development, the process is relatively straightforward.

Clone the repo:
`git clone https://github.com/gnolang/gno.git`

Build / install base commands:
`make build `

That’s it!

> ### Testing

Reviewer 2: Can we also mention `gnodev test` here? It's very helpful for testing gno smart contracts

Author: I love this idea 💯 

Added:

[93d6736](https://github.com/gnolang/gno/pull/469/commits/93d6736e126be461a3246c583b53c1a57367cd0b)

```

#### Base PR template

The [base PR template](https://github.com/gnolang/gno/blob/master/.github/pull_request_template.md) is by default a
simple template meant to illustrate quickly what’s the context of the PR. Here, you should describe your PR in detail,
and leave a remark as to how your changes have been tested.

If you've run a manual test, please provide the exact steps taken.

#### Detailed PR template

The [detailed PR template](https://github.com/gnolang/gno/blob/master/.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE/detailed_pr_template.md)
is used when you want to convey a bit more detail and context for your PRs. In contrast to the default PR template, it
follows a checklist approach that is meant to be filled out by the PR creator, with as much information as possible.
These detailed PR descriptions serve an important purpose down the line in the future, when it’s important to understand
the context under which a PR has been created, and for what reason.

You can utilize the detailed PR template by appending the following query param to the URL on the new PR page:

`template=detailed_pr_template.md`

### How do I report a bug?

> Found something funky while using gno? You can report it to the team using GitHub issues.

Reviewer 2: I know it's obvious, but it's good to mention:
```
Before you open an issue, please check for existing open and closed Issues
to see if that bug/feature has already been reported/requested. If you find 
a relevant topic, you can comment on that issue.
```

Author: If I've learned anything, it's that it's _never_ obvious enough 🙂 

Added:

[e1d2213](https://github.com/gnolang/gno/pull/469/commits/e1d22139aca34535ea49c7681ad25d8e15f8651e)

### How do I request a feature?

The gno project operates in the public. This means that feature requests are not just reviewed by the core team, but
also by the general user base and other contributors.

If you would like to propose a new feature (submit a feature request), you can do so by opening up an issue on GitHub,
and providing ample context as to why this feature should be implemented. Even better, if you are able to propose your
feature request in code, you should open a PR instead. This allows the community to easily discuss and build upon the idea
in a central place.

Additionally, it is encouraged that users suggest their idea on the official communication channels like Discord, to get
a feel for what other contributors think.

## Style Guides

### Git Commit Messages

The gno project tends to use the [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) standard for any
commit that goes into the main code stream (currently, the `master` branch).

Each PR is squashed and merged into the main code stream, which means PR _titles_ should adhere to the Conventional
Commit standard, and be short and precise.

> A general rule of thumb:

Reviewer 2: Can we add this
```
- Make separate commits for logically separate changes
```

Since, I personally like to review commit by commit.

Author: Added:

[d185a8b](https://github.com/gnolang/gno/pull/469/commits/d185a8bb6c287558e09d2dd4a555943f172ecfd2)

- Use Conventional Commits for PR titles

> - Never favor rewriting history in PRs (rebases have very few exceptions, like implementation rewrites)

Reviewer 2: I would like to be more descriptive here. Something like. 
```
Avoid rebasing after you open your PRs to reviews. Instead, add 
more commits to your PR. It's OK to do force pushes if PR was 
never opened for reviews before.

A reviewer likes to see a linear commit history while reviewing. If you 
tend to force push from an older commit, a reviewer might lose track 
in your recent changes and will have to start reviewing from scratch.

Don't worry about adding too many commits. The commits are 
squashed into a single commit while merging (if needed). Your PR title 
is used as the commit message.
```

Also, can we move this point to the section where we are talking about submitting PR?

Author: Good point 💯 

I've added the explainer, and moved it to the relevant section:

[6d71650](https://github.com/gnolang/gno/pull/469/commits/6d71650f3ff5c40d4d39da439cb5ee05d9014beb)

> ### Go Style Guide

Reviewer 2: I think it's better to say
```
### Go/Gno Style Guide
```
Since it's for both `.go` and `.gno` files. To avoid any confusion

- [Google’s Go Style Guide](https://google.github.io/styleguide/go/guide)
  and [Google’s Go Best Practices](https://google.github.io/eng-practices/review/)

If unsure, you should always follow the existing code style of the repository.

Additionally, the gno codebase uses linters to enforce some common coding style etiquette. Any PR that aims to modify
the gno codebase should make sure that the linter checks pass; otherwise they won’t be merged into the main code stream.

### Documentation Style Guide

When writing in-code documentation, always favor to stay aligned with the godoc standard. Gno’s development philosophy
stays true to idiomatic Go, and this transfers to the documentation as well.

Resources for idiomatic Go docs:

- [godoc](https://go.dev/blog/godoc)
- [Go Doc Comments](https://tip.golang.org/doc/comment)

## Additional Notes

### Issue and Pull Request Labels

The gno project uses a set of labels for managing ongoing issues and pull requests.

If you’d like to modify the current label structure, please submit a PR modifying
the [labels.json](https://github.com/gnolang/gno/blob/master/.github/labels.json) file. The gno project utilizes
automatic label management.

> #### Labels for Issues

Reviewer 2: s/Issues/Pull Requests

Author: Good catch 💯 

Swapped:
[debf176](https://github.com/gnolang/gno/pull/469/commits/debf176e8d75088573bd9e542fac7d3b8bd971f9)

| Label Name      | Description                                                     |
|-----------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|
| breaking change | PR introduces backwards incompatible functionality              |
| bug fix         | PR introduces a fix for a known bug                             |
| dependencies    | PR introduces a package version bump                            |
| documentation   | PR introduces an improvement or addition to the docs            |
| don’t merge     | PR contains unstable functionality that shouldn't be merged yet |
| feature         | PR adds new functionality to Gno                                |
| hotfix          | PR applies a hotfix that should be merged ASAP                  |

> #### Labels for Pull Requests

Reviewer 2: s/Pull Requests/Issues

Author: Good catch 💯 

Swapped:
[debf176](https://github.com/gnolang/gno/pull/469/commits/debf176e8d75088573bd9e542fac7d3b8bd971f9)

### Repository Structure

The repository structure can seem tricky at first, but it’s simple if you consider the philosophy that the gno project
employs (check out [PHILOSOPHY.md](https://github.com/gnolang/gno/blob/master/PHILOSOPHY.md)).

The gno project currently favors a mono-repo structure, as it’s easier to manage contributions and keep everyone
aligned. In the future, this may change, but in the meantime the majority of gno resources and source code will be
centralized here.

- `cmd` - contains the base command implementations for tools like `gnokey`, `gnotxport`, etc. The actual underlying
  logic is located within the `pkgs` subdirectories.
- `examples` - contains the example `.gno` realms and packages. This is the central point for adding user-defined realms
  and packages.
- `gnoland` - contains the base source code for bootstrapping the Gnoland node
- `pkgs` - contains the dev-audited packages used throughout the gno codebase
- `stdlibs` - contains the standard library packages used (imported) in `.gno` Smart Contracts. These packages are
  themselves `.gno` files.
- `tests` - contains the standard language tests for Gnolang

## How do I?

### How do I submit changes?

> 

Reviewer: In this section, I'd like something to discourage people from opening issues that are just the copy-paste of a PR.

Instead, we should consider PRs as issues with attached code and encourage people to use PRs for discussions while keeping issues for things that are not linked to a PR or multiple PRs.

Author: I've updated this section, as well as the section for `How do I request a feature?` to include a note on favoring PRs instead of issues:

[508279d](https://github.com/gnolang/gno/pull/469/commits/508279df401f3050a9e64a01da8ac9492394cfd5)

Reviewer: 👍

In the issue, please provide as much information as possible, for example:

- what you’ve experienced
- what should be the expected behavior
- which version of gno are you running
- any logs that might be relevant

Once you open up an issue, a core team member will take a look and start a conversation with you about resolving it.

### How do I request a feature?

The gno project operates in the public. This means that feature requests are not just reviewed by the core team, but
also by the general user base and other contributors.

If you would like to propose a new feature (submit a feature request), you can do so by opening up an issue on GitHub,
and providing ample context as to why this feature should be implemented.

Additionally, it is encouraged that users suggest their idea on the official communication channels like Discord, to get
a feel for what other contributors think.

## Style Guides

### Git Commit Messages

The gno project tends to use the [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) standard for any
commit that goes into the main code stream (currently, the `master` branch).

> Each PR is squashed and merged into the main code stream, which means PR _titles_ should also adhere to the Conventional

Reviewer: Actually, this is the only important part that should follow this convention

Author: Updated the wording to make this clear:

[382fa03](https://github.com/gnolang/gno/pull/469/commits/382fa0331abe8431816064588668bed795572a46)

Commit standard, and be short and precise.

A general rule of thumb:

> - Use Conventional Commits for `master` branch pushes and PR titles

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use Conventional Commits PR titles
```

We don't want master direct pushes.

Author: Updated the bullet point:

[382fa03](https://github.com/gnolang/gno/pull/469/commits/382fa0331abe8431816064588668bed795572a46)

- Never favor rewriting history in PRs (rebases have very few exceptions, like implementation rewrites)

### Go Style Guide

The gno codebase currently doesn’t follow any specific standard in terms of code style. The core team, and core
contributors, favor using the following code style guides:

- [Effective Go](https://go.dev/doc/effective_go)
- [Uber’s Go Style Guide](https://github.com/uber-go/guide/blob/master/style.md)
- [Google’s Go Style Guide](https://google.github.io/styleguide/go/guide)
  and [Google’s Go Best Practices](https://google.github.io/eng-practices/review/)

> If unsure, you should always fall back on idiomatic Go.

Reviewer: Here, we should say that we want contributions to follow the style of the rest of the repo.

Author: Updated:

[fc8ac6e](https://github.com/gnolang/gno/pull/469/commits/fc8ac6e2bad886451994436b12e0e3ca3d761158)

| question         | Issue starts a discussion or raises a question    |

### Notable Contributions

Notable contributions of fixes/features/refactors:

* [https://github.com/gnolang/gno/pull/208](#208) - @anarcher, gnodev test with testing.T
* [https://github.com/gnolang/gno/pull/167](#167) - @loicttn, website: Add syntax highlighting + security practices
* [https://github.com/gnolang/gno/pull/136](#136) - @moul, foo20, a grc20 example smart contract
* [https://github.com/gnolang/gno/pull/126](#126) - @moul, feat: use the new Precompile in gnodev and in the
  addpkg/execution flow (2/2)
* [https://github.com/gnolang/gno/pull/119](#119) - @moul, add a Gno2Go precompiler (1/2)
* [https://github.com/gnolang/gno/pull/112](#112) - @moul, feat: add 'gnokey maketx --broadcast' option
* [https://github.com/gnolang/gno/pull/110](#110), [https://github.com/gnolang/gno/pull/109](#109), [https://github.com/gnolang/gno/pull/108](#108), [https://github.com/gnolang/gno/pull/106](#106), [https://github.com/gnolang/gno/pull/103](#103), [https://github.com/gnolang/gno/pull/102](#102), [https://github.com/gnolang/gno/pull/101](#101) -

>   @moul, various chores.

Reviewer: I don't think the change is better.

We'll remove this section soon, thanks to #407.

Author: Reverted the formatting for this section:

[929b437](https://github.com/gnolang/gno/pull/469/commits/929b437c93fde1a6c76bb2fd5f2ed08914950afa)
